
# 1.3. First component

In this chapter, we will be creating our first component in React. A component in React is a reusable piece of UI, encapsulating the HTML, JavaScript, and any necessary styles. Our first component will be a simple Task component that represents a single task in our to-do list.

Structure of a React Component:
A React component is essentially a JavaScript function (or class) that returns a piece of JSX. JSX is a syntax extension for JavaScript, which looks similar to XML or HTML.

## Creating a Task Component

Inside the src directory, create a new folder named components.
Within the components folder, create a new file named Task.tsx.

## Writing the Task Component

Open the `Task.tsx`` file and write the following code:

```tsx
import React from 'react';

interface TaskProps {
  text: string;
}

export default function Task({ text }: TaskProps) {
  return <div>{text}</div>
}

export default Task
```

In the above code:

- We import the React library.
- We define a TypeScript interface TaskProps to specify the type of props our component will receive.
- We create a functional component Task that takes text as a prop and returns a div displaying the text.


## Using the Task Component in App Component

Now, let’s use the Task component in our main App component.

```tsx
import React from 'react'
import Task from './components/Task'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Task text="Learn React with TypeScript" />
    </div>
  )
}

export default App
```

In the `App.tsx` file:

- We import the Task component from `./components/Task`.
- Inside the `App` component's return statement, we use the Task component, passing the `text` prop with a value of "Learn React with TypeScript".

Now, when you run your application, you should see the text "Learn React with TypeScript" displayed on the screen.

---

This way, you've successfully created and utilized your first component in the project. This sets the foundation for building more complex components and features as we progress through the subsequent chapters.